So, I guess day one started a long time ago.  I happened to check the classified paper (because my dad still reads newz paperz, what a lamer) and saw two local businesses advertizing a need for Ruby on Rails programmers.  I happened to like one of them a lot(they sell food, but no further details shall be provided to protect their delicious identities).  So I said to myself, "I'm going to figure out what Ruby on Rails is and then do that for money."  

Upon further investigation, ruby on rails is a web development framework that allows for rapid production of uber sweet web applications that interact with databases and are very programmable.  My first impression was, "Web sites suck, screw that."  But then I saw how the technology had evolved since I graduated high school (and never viewed source of another web site again, nor pieced together the nature of a javascript function).  Now-a-days you build "Dynamic websites" or you're considered by the internet community to be "quite lamo."  Anyway, I started learning PHP because it's more accessible than rails... eg when you setup a PHP web app, you just need to write one page of code and put it on a webserver, but with rails you need to be some MIT professor and install a bunch of ruby gems and stuff that I really wasn't ready for, plus you need to code a whole project of files, rather than just one...  OK, so there I was learning to program PHP, and I realized that AJAX was the coolest and simplest thing in the world.  Rails is based on AJAX which is a means of updating parts of the page without having to reload the whole damn thing.  

Anyway, I gathered my wits and built the beginnings of a rather cool web application in PHP that allows me to store my text notes (kinda like this one) but do so online where I can access them from anywhere, and I can even encrypt them so NSA employees don't use my ideas to hurt ppl.  


OK, cool idea, but it still doesn't have me understanding how rails works yet...  So kind of a bummer because this has taken a lot of time, but I'm getting there.  The webserver I'm subscribing to has really iffy support when it comes to their web server...  I don't think it readily supports silverlight, and certainly doesn't allow asp or that junk.  It 'has' rails, but...  I email customer support and ask these questions and they just don't come up with answers...  for instance...

I follow their tutorial to build my first rails project, and the tutorial has me create a subdomain and link it to the rails project.  They failed to mention though, that when ever you create a subdomain with them, it will take several hours before it becomes active.  The second problem was that, once the domain became active, the rails program wasn't able to give me environment information (the sample rails program that you make is a sort of hello world, but my was broken and wouldn't show the environment data it should have).  And after a random amount of time... it just started working...  I was pretty confused.  I've decided that I'm going to build my own linux system and do what the web server does, that way I don't have to put up with anybody's shit (i don't talk like this in real life, lol).    

Great, for the first time in the world, I've wanted to "switch" to linux, and for the first time I actually have a legitimate use for linux (before it's always been, "for the sake of switching like all the cool kids").  Hopefully things work out for me, but I'm going to need to log everything I do to that debian machine so I don't forget how I put it all together.
